good morning
It certainly got quiet quickly. That surprised me.
can you hear me are you
they're back
well for business school you know it
doesn't get much better than this
having the world's greatest investor
come to our campus is quite bored office
German berkshire hathaway holding
company's investments range from backup
insurance
American Express coca-cola portions
jewelry stories whole town
braska mr. Baumann has been described as
God
value investors Michael Jordan of
investing game
he began his first investment
partnership mid-nineteen fifties with
100 hours of his own money
a few years later he began investing
struggling Massachusetts textile mill
called berkshire hathaway through birth
anniversary started putting capital into
other businesses seeking insurance which
generate cash streams for more
investments which have done very well
indeed as well
share prices about eighteen dollars in
1965 berkshire today traits around sixty
nine thousand one hundred dollars a
share
over time the company's annualized
performances more than double that of
the S&P 500 and berkshire today is worth
more than 100 billion dollars but mr.
Buffett is known as much for his
unpretentious style at as far as lofty
success
he has become a champion of investors is
legendary for his aversion to corporate
double speak is rare among CEOs and that
he cheerfully admits his mistakes
three years ago he wrote in his annual
report that butcher would have done
better if you'd simply gone to the
movies are great work very many years
like that since nineteen sixty-five
believe me
berkshire was proudly even the finally
absent from the dot , stereo the last
few years and now that the bubble has
burst as we all know it's warren buffett
is having the last laugh
his most recent letter to shareholders
he wrote quote we have embraced the 21st
century by entering such cutting-edge
industries as brick carpet installation
and paint try to control your excitement
my buddy
you know i am personally from reading
his letters
it's just a joy it's it's it's a it's a
business lesson in itself i encourage it
whenever you get an opportunity to take
one side and and read it carefully
you'll learn a tremendous amount his
wisdom and insights or so value that
some investors buy a share purchase
stock just so they can hear him his
legendary annual meeting or as he calls
it
Woodstock for capitalists he doesn't
make speaking of periods as often and we
are extremely fortunate to have him with
us today
Earl entered of coca-cola and our
distinguished executive-in-residence had
a lot to do with a thorough and we're
deeply indebted to you for helping to
raise us thank you very much
our format today will be primarily
questions and answers mr. Buffett will
make some brief remarks at the beginning
and then we'll move into your face
we will have a microphone setup over
here we would like you to come around we
were videotaping we'd like it use a
microphone play so go ahead and begin to
line up over there to ask your questions
so would you please give a very warm
welcome to the Oracle of Omaha warrant
yeah
good night
testing 1 million two million three okay
I I came from Nebraska today and that
you're probably all familiar with us
mainly by our football team we have
those fellows with the the bingo white
helmets with those red hands on
I asked one of our starters the other
day what's the end stand when he said
knowledge
ok we can make a ton of though I mean
that you know coaster Nebraska
just because you're a football player
with that they made your in agricultural
economics and there's a to question
final for all of the fires and first
question is what are all mcdonald have
and
they were giving that to one of our
potential Heisman Trophy winners the
other day and he started this swept
finally right now is a farm pressure in
the light of course you don't want to
find a Heisman candidate uh so I said
now he said you're halfway home
he said just one more question how do
you spell far
I think I really starts to sweat and he
looks at the ceiling and he looks around
five his face by itself
he says he I all so much for that guy
sure it will be done right now
I look I really want to talk about what
side your mind so we're going to do a
Q&A and the men and I I there's a couple
questions i always get asked you know I
always did always say well we should i
go to work for when i get out then I've
got a very simple answer we we may
elaborate more on this as we go along
but another the real thing to do is to
get going in first
some institution or individual that you
admire
I mean it's crazy to take in between
jobs just because they look good on your
resume or because you get a little
higher starting pay i was up at Harvard
while back and very nice young guys pick
me up at the airport
Harvard Business School attending and he
said look he said I went to undergrad
here and then I worked for x and y and z
and now I've come here and he said I
thought it would really round up my
resume perfectly if I want to work now
for a big management consulting firm and
I said what is that what you want to do
he said nobody said that's the perfect
resume and I said well what are you
going to start doing what you like and
he said well I'll get to that someday
and I said well you know I said your
plan sounds to me a lot like saving up
sex for your old age
it just doesn't make a lot of sex
head I told that same girl I said you're
not going to work for every admire the
most and I said you can't get a bad
result of jump out of bed in the morning
and you'll be having fun being called me
up a couple weeks later said what you
tell us gets he said they're all
becoming self-employed so you've got
you've got a temper that advice a little
bit
ah play one game a little bit with me
for just a minute and then roll up that
will get to your questions and I'd like
for the moment to have you a lot that
heavy pretend i made you a great offer
and I've told you that you could pick
any one of your classmates in you now
know each other
probably pretty well after being here
for a while you can thank you have 24
hours to think it over and you can pick
any one of your classmates and you get
ten percent of their earnings for the
rest of their lives and I ask you what
goes through your mind in determining
which one of those who would pick you
can pick the one with the richest father
that doesn't count on me you gotta gotta
do this on merit but you probably
wouldn't pick the person against the
highest grades in the class
I mean that at all we're getting is
grades in the class but that that's not
that isn't going to be the quality that
but that sets apart a big winner from
the rest of the pack
think about who we would pick and why
and I think you'll find when you get
through
you'll pick some individual you've all
got the ability you wouldn't be here
otherwise you've all got the energy
I mean you've got it out here did the
initiative is here
the intelligence is here throughout the
class but some of your going to be
bigger winners and others had it gets
down to a bunch of qualities that
interestingly enough you are our self
made
I mean it's not how tall you are not
willing to kick a football 60 yards is
not whether you could run the
hundred-yard dash
ten seconds it's that whether the
best-looking person in the room
it's a whole bunch of qualities that
really come out of Ben Franklin or the
Boy Scout colder so whatever it may be I
mean it'sit's its integrity is honesty
it's its generosity it's it's being
willing to do more than your share its
it's just all those qualities that are
self selected and then if you look on
the other side of the ledger because
there's always a catch to these you know
free gifts in June a joke so you'll also
have to this is the fun part
you also have to sell short one of your
classmates and pay ten percent of what
they do
so what do you think is going to do the
worst in the class is a great more fun
and think about it again and again it
wasn't the plan but it isn't the person
with the lowest grades or anything of
the sort
it's the person who just doesn't shape
up in the character department when we
look for three things when we hire
people we look for intelligence we look
friend for initiative or energy and we
look for integrity and if they don't
have the ladder
the first tool kill you because if
you're going to get somebody without
integrity you want to be lazy and down
I mean you don't want to get a lot of
smart and energetic self is that third
quality and but everything about that
quality is your choice
you know you you can't change the way
you are wired much but you can change a
lot of what you do with that wiring and
it's the habits that you generate now on
those qualities or those negative
qualities i mean the person the person
who always you know claimed credit for
things they didn't do that always cuts
corners that the can't count on getting
it in the end
those those are habit patterns and the
time to form the right habits is one
year when you're your age I mean it duh
it doesn't do me much good to get golf
lessons now if I got the golf lessons
when I was your age I might be a decent
offer but but it
someone once said the chains of habit or
two are too light to be felt until
they're too heavy to be broken and i see
that all the time i see people with have
a patterns that
her self destructive when they're 50 or
60 and they think they really can't
change their imprisoned by that but
you're not in prison by anything so when
you write down the qualities of that
person that you'd like to buy to ten
percent of look at that list and ask
yourself is there anything on that list
i couldn't do the answers
there are there won't be and when you
look at the person yourself short
and you look at those qualities that you
don't like if you see any of those in
yourself
he could tell them whatever maybe
selfishness you can get rid of that I
mean that is not ordained and if you
follow that you and Ben Franklin did
this in my old boss Ben Graham did this
of early ages in their young teens they
just been grand looked around and he
said who I admire you know and you want
to be admired himself and he said you
know why do i buy these other people and
he said if I admire them for these
reasons maybe other people will admire
me if I behave in a similar manner any
and he decided what kind of a person who
wanted to be and if you follow that at
the end you'll be the person you love my
ten percent of I mean that's the goal in
the end and it's it's something that's
achievable by by everybody in this room
so that's the end of the sermon
knowledge let's talk about what's on
your mind and the you're going to ask
anything
the only thing I won't tell you is what
we're buying or selling her about let's
say yeah i don't i don't even tell
myself that I mean I i write it down
that I like the coca-cola formula you
know there's only two people can get
into the trust Department and find out
what they are and I don't know the two
are so it at its we don't talk about
what we're buying or selling but
anything else is fair game personal
business
anything you'd like to talk about and
actually the top of the questions are
the more interesting of this for me so
don't don't spare my feelings i may just
thrown at my head
add that and with that let's I guess we
got a microphone is this the only
microphone is there one on feeling like
ok here is my ceiling
I'm gonna do microphone to stand in line
them and i'll be Regis Philbin and you
can
yes i have an old-fashioned belief that
i can only should expect to make money
and things that I understand when I say
understand I don't understand it
you know what the product does or
anything like that
I didn't understand what the economics
of the business are likely to look at
look like 10 years in our 20 years and
now i know in general what the economics
of a Wrigley chewing gum will look like
10 years now
the internet is going to change the way
people should come
it isn't going to change which come they
true now if you own the chewing gum
market in a big way and you've got
double mint experiment and juicy fruit
those brands will be there 10 years
analysis
I can't pinpoint exactly what the
numbers are gonna look like I'm really
but i'm not going to be way off if I try
to look forward on something like that
that evaluating that company is within
when i call my circle of competence I
understand what they do i understand the
economics of and I understand the
competitive aspects of the business
there can be all kinds of companies that
have wonderful futures but i don't know
which ones they are
and I given talks in the past where I
carry with me a a 70-page tightly
printed list and it shows two thousand
auto companies now for the start of the
20th century you had seen what the auto
was going to do to this country the
impact it would have on the lives and
then your children and grandchildren and
so on that what it just it transformed
the American landscape but of those two
thousand companies you know three
basically survive and they haven't done
that well I had many times
so how do you pick three winners out of
2,000 I mean it's not so easy to do it's
easy when you look back but it's not so
easy looking forward so you could have
been dead right on on the fact that the
auto industry fact he probably could
have predicted how big impact it would
have but you wouldn't have if you want
companies across the board you wouldn't
have made any money because the economic
characteristics of that business we're
not easy to define i said i'd always
said the easier thing to do is figure
out who loses and what you really should
have done in 1900 five or so when you
saw what was going to happen with the
auto is you should have gone short
horses there were 20 million horses and
1900 there's about four million horses
now so it's easy to figure out the
losers get the losers the horse but the
winner was the auto overall but 2,000
companies just about fail with you
merged out and so on
there were three companies auto
companies in the Dow Industrials in the
nineteen twenties and thirties
Studebaker Nash Combinator and Hudson
motor those names are all familiar to me
and maybe some more familiar to you
but they're not making any cars you know
they didn't make money i had at one time
they were in the dowel 30
they were the aristocrats of American
business and they got creamed
so figuring out the economic
characteristics about the winners in a
wonderful business and it is not easy in
north carolina in a horrible and Roberto
golf
I guess or we'll talk often we're
watching i have been Wilbur
but if you could have seen the future of
the airline business from that point
forward and how that would transform
things you know it would blow you away
that's excited people incidentally ever
since
but if they're going to capitalist the
kitty hawk he should have shot horrible
down
I mean it because it's nothing but cost
investors money there were 400 airplane
companies in the nineteen twenties and
thirties along there was an all the hall
there was a Nebraska we were the silicon
valley of America apparently very graft
and they all disappeared in a terrible
business at the end of nineteen
ninety-one if you added up the aggregate
earnings from all airline companies with
billions board in since Wilbur and
Orville were down there
they came to less than zero number of
passengers went up every year the
importance of the industry was
dramatically increased decade by decade
and nobody made any money
it so figuring out the economic
consequences TV
I think there's I don't know 20 25
million sensei years old the United
States
I don't think is one of them made in the
United States anymore I mean it's a TV
set manufacturer what a wonderful
business site
everybody and nobody a TV in nineteen
fifty are there about 45 to 50
everybody has multiple sets now nobody
is in the United States and made any
real money making the sense that they're
all out of business in the magnet boxes
the rca's all of those companies radio
was the equivalent of 20 over 500
companies making radios in nineteen
twenties again I don't think there's a
us radio manufacturer at the present
time but coca-cola
you know I was eighteen eighty for
jacob's pharmacy or whatever and fellow
comes up with something a lot of cock
copiers over the years but now you've
got a company that is selling roughly
1.1 billion a tout servings of its
product not all cloaks writing some
other daily throughout the world
honoured 17 years later so understanding
the economic characteristics of a
business is different than predicting
the fact that an interest
is going to do wonderfully so I look at
the internet businesses are looking at
tech mrs. i say this is a marvelous
thing I love to play around on the
computer and it now i order my books
from amazon and all kinds of things but
I don't know who's going to win unless I
know who's going to win
I'm not interested in the best thing
i'll just play around on the computer at
defining your circle of competence is
the most important aspect of investing
it's not how important how large your
circle is you don't have to be an expert
on everything but knowing where the
perimeter of that circle of what you
know what you don't know is and staying
inside of it is all important
Tom Watson senior started IBM said in
his book he said it
I'm no genius said but I'm smart in
spots
I stay around those spots and you know
that is the key
so if I understand a few things and I
stick in that arena
I'll do okay and if I don't understand
something but I got all excited about it
because my neighbors are talking about
stocks are going up everything they
start fooling around someplace else
eventually I'll get cream and I should
so now let's go over here a little bit
I got two short questions one is how do
you find intrinsic value in a company
while intrinsic value is what is the
number that if you were all knowing
about the future and could predict all
the cash that a bit of business would
give you between now and judgement day
discounted at the proper discount rate
that number is what the intrinsic value
of businesses in other words the only
reason for making investment laying out
money now is to get more money later on
right that's that's what investing is
all about
now when you look at the stock when you
look at the bottom so Miss United States
government is very easy tom what you're
going to get back
it says it right on the bond it says
when you get the interest payments so
when you get the principal
so it's very easy to figure out the
value of a body could change tomorrow of
interest rates change but you are the
cash flows are printed on the bond the
cash flows are printed on a stock
certificate
that's the job of the animals
is to print out change that stock
certificate which represents an interest
in the business and change that into a
bond and say this is what I think it's
going to play out in the future when we
buy you know some machine for Shaw it to
make carpet
that's what we're thinking about
obviously and you know you all learned
that in business school but it's the
same thing for a big business it if you
by coca-cola today the company is
selling for about a hundred and ten to
fifteen billion dollars in the market
the question is if you had a hundred and
ten or fifteen billion you would be
listening to me but I didn't listen to
you it's nothing but the question is
would you lay it out today to get what
the coca-cola company is going to
deliver to you over the next two or
three hundred years
discount rate doesn't make much
difference after as you get further out
but and that is a question how much cash
they are going to give you it isn't a
question of you know that is the
question of how many analysts are going
to recommend that or what the volume of
the stock is or what the chart looks
like running
it's a question how much cash is going
to give you that you only read the true
with if you're buying a farm
- if you're buying an apartment house
any financial asset for oil in the
ground
you're laying out Cashin how to get your
cash back later on and the question is
how much you're going to get one here to
get it and how sure are you
and when i calculate intrinsic value of
a business when we buy businesses and
whether we're buying all of a business
or a little piece of the business i
always think we're buying the whole
business because that's my approach to
it
I look at it and say what what will come
out of this business and when and what
you really like of course of them to be
able to use the money they earn and are
higher returns on it as you go along I
mean Berkshires never distributed
anything to shareholders but its ability
to distribute goes up as the value of
the businesses we own increases we can
compound it internally but the real
question
berkshire selling for will say a hundred
and five or so billion now uh what can
we distribute from that hundred and if
you're going to buy the whole company
405 million now can we distribute enough
cash to you soon enough to make a
sensible
at present interest rates to lay out
that cash now and that's that's what he
gets out doing at the end if you can't
answer that question
you can't buy the stock you know you can
gamble in the stock if you want to your
neighbors can buy it but if you don't
answer that question I can't answer that
for for internet companies for example
that a lot of companies that all kinds
of me so I can ask for but I just stay
away from those number two
so you get formula is involved in
finding intrinsic values and
circumference and you got a mathematical
this is that just got a present value of
future cash show segments for question
is why haven't you written down your set
of formulas or your strategies in
written form so you can share with
everyone else
well i think i actually have written
about that oh and if you read the annual
reports over the years back the most
recent and report
I i use what I've just been talking to
use the illustration of Esau because
here he stopped was in 600 BC smart man
was smart enough to know it was 600 BC
though I mean it will take a little
foresight that but he stopped you know
it between tortoises and hair is always
other things he found time to write
about you know Bert and he said a bird
in the hand is worth two in the bush
now there isn't quite complete because
the question is how sure are you that
there are two in the bush
and how long you have to wait to get
them out now
they probably knew that but he just
didn't have time because he had all
these other problems to write and had to
get on with it so but he was halfway
there and 600 BC that's all there is to
investing is how many birds in the bush
what are you going to get them out and
how sure are you
now if interest rates are fifteen
percent roughly
you've got to get two birds out of the
bush and five years equal the bird in
the hand but if interest rates are three
percent and you can get two birds out in
20 years it still makes sense to give up
the bird in the hand because it's all
gets back to discounting against an
interest on interest rate that Hamish
often you don't know you know not only
how many birds in the bush put in the
case the Internet companies there
weren't any birds in the bush but that
but they still take the bird that you
give them from the hand that but it's
but I i actually have written about this
sort of thing and stealing have away
from the top of the rotor some 2,600
years ago but I've been behind on my
reading
yeah yeah good morning huh I know you're
vain for your success but i was curious
is there any particular moments in your
life that or mistakes or failures that
you've made that were particularly
memorable
what you may have learned from them and
if you have any particular advice for
the students here in dealing with the
with the discouraging circle yeah I well
I may have made a lot of mistakes
biggest mistake i exalt while and not
the biggest not necessarily the biggest
but the by Berkshire Hathaway itself was
a mistake because virtually lousy
textile business and I brought a very
cheap
I've been taught by Ben Graham to buy
things on a quantitative basis look
around for things that are cheap and
that i was taught that same 1949-50 made
a big impression on me so I went around
looking for what i call you cigar bunch
of stocks and the cigar butt approach to
buying stocks is that you walk down the
street and you're looking around for
cigar butts and you find this
honestly that's terrible-looking soggy
ugly-looking cigar one pot left in it
but you pick it up and you get your one
puff disgusting is right away but it's
free
I mean it's cheap and then you look
around for another soggy
you know one puff cigarettes well that's
what I did for years
it's a mistake ah although we make money
doing it but you can't make it with big
money so much easier just to by
wonderful businesses so now i would
rather buy a wonderful business at a
fair price that a fair business with a
wonderful price but in those days I was
buying cheap stocks and berkshire was
selling below its working capital for
sure you have plans for nothing at the
machinery for nothing
you get the inventory and receivables of
the discount is cheap so i bought it and
twenty years later I was still running a
lousy business and that money did not
compound you really want to be a
wonderful business because at that time
is the friend of the wonderful business
you keep compounding it keeps doing more
business and you keep making more money
time is the enemy of the lousy business
I could have sold berkshire perhaps
liquidated it and made a quick little
profit
you know one puff but staying with those
kind of businesses is this is a big
mistake
so you might say I learned something out
of that mistake and I would have been
way better off taking what i did with
Berkshires I kept buying but better
businesses
I started insurance business sees candy
the Buffalo and all kinds of things i
would have been way better doing that
with a with a brand-new little entity
that I'd set up rather than using
berkshire the platform now I've had a
lot of fun out of it
I mean everything in life seems to turn
out for the better so I I don't have any
complaints about that but it was a dumb
thing to do
I went in the US air i bought a
preferred stock in 1989
ah as soon as my check cleared the
company went into the red never got out
I mean it was it that really done
I mean a dead I've got an 800 number i
call now whenever I think about buying
an airline stock i call them up any our
that fortunately i call it three in the
morning and I just dial it myself my
name is Warren I'm a narrow holic and
I'm thinking about buying this thing and
then they talked me down many things
happened
thanks takes hours sometimes but it's
worth it
flipping if you ever think about that
era of buying an airline stock call me
and i'll give you the 800 number because
I don't know
you don't want to do it but we got lucky
in terms of how we eventually came out
on it but it was a dumb dumb decision
all mine and I've done
I biggest biggest step in terms of
events that in terms of opportunity
cause eventually cost
I brought half interest in a Sinclair
filling station was about 20 with a guy
was in the national guard with out of my
ten thousand dollars then I put two
thousand dollars in and I lost it all
so that was twenty percent and that
means that the opportunity cost is now
six billion dollars of that of that
filling station which is a big price to
pay for you know getting the white with
your windows in the fields Hannah
windshields and things like that so
actually I like it when berkshire goes
down does it reduce the cost of that
mistake on an opportunity to us but the
biggest mistakes we made by far I've
made not we've made the biggest mistakes
I've made by far our mistakes of
omission and not coalition me it's the
things I knew enough to do they were
within my circle of competence and I was
sucking my thumb and that is really
those are the ones that her they don't
show up any place I probably cost
berkshire at least five billion dollars
for example by sucking my thumb
twenty years ago are close to one Fannie
Mae was was having some troubles and
forget about the whole company for
practically nothing and I don't worry
about that if it's microsoft because I
don't know what was microsoft isn't in
my circle of compliments
that's why I I don't have any reason to
think I'm entitled to make money out of
Microsoft or out of cocoa beans or
whatever but I didn't know enough to
understand Fannie Mae and I bullet and
that never shows up under conventional
county but the call i know the cost of
it I know I know you know that I passed
it up
and those are the big big mistakes and
I've had plenty of them at and you
unless I tell you about them in the
annual report and I resist the
temptation sometimes as I tell you about
him in the annual report
you're not going to know it because it
doesn't show up under conventional
county but automation is way bigger than
accomplished there is a big
opportunities in life have to be seized
out we don't do very many things but
when we get the chance to do something
that's right a big
we've got to do it and even to do it on
a small scale is just as big a mistake
almost is not doing it at all I mean
you've really gotta you gotta grab them
when they come and that because they are
not going to get 500 great opportunities
you would be better off if when you got
out of school here
you gotta punch card with 20 punches on
it and every big financial every
financial decision you made you used up
a punch you get very rich because you
think through very hard
each one of you want to a cocktail party
and somebody talk about a company didn't
even understand what they did he
couldn't pronounce the name but they
made some money last week and another
one like it
you wouldn't buy it if you only had 24
inches on that card there's a temptation
to dabble
if particularly during all markets in
socks is so easy you know easier now
than ever because you can do it online
you know just you click it then and
maybe goes up to . get excited about
that you buy another one the next day
and so on
you can't make any money over time doing
that but if you have a punch card with
only 20 punches
we're going to get another one of us to
your life you would think a long time
before every investment decision and you
would make good ones and you make big
ones and you probably wouldn't even use
all 20 punches at the in your lifetime
but you would need to
yeah mr. perfect morning and in your
comments about making mistakes and
errors like that you talk a little about
your self discipline when you're in a
position and you you feel like it's no
longer good in what criteria to use to
you just finally abandoned it
yeah when I started out the South
situation has changed over the years
because when i started out and why ideas
the money and i would go through movies
manual i went through it page by page
and then I went through it again
by page and i found stocks in there that
i could understand that we're selling a
bike to time journeys even one time
servings
well when you don't have 10,000 bucks
that i can get a little frustrating and
and if you don't like to borrow money
which I never like to borrow money so I
was always coming up with more ideas
than i had money so i had to sell
whatever I likes least to buy something
new that just was compelling to me and
it for a long time i was in that mode
and now our problems we have more money
than ideas
so where when
if you look at our annual report which
is on the internet under in our home
base furniture out of the way . com
you'll see something in the back call
the economic principles of Berkshire and
you will see which I believe in setting
out for my my partner's they are my
partner's I don't look at my share of my
partners and I got my partners for life
so I want to tell them how I think and
if they don't just agree with the way I
think that's fine but I don't want them
that I don't be disappointed in me
so ah i lay out there and I say in terms
of are wholly owned businesses
we're not going to sell no matter how
much anybody offers this for me I mean
if somebody offers three times what
something is worth that sees candy the
buffalo news for showers whatever maybe
we're not gonna sell it
I may be wrong and having that approach
i know i'm not wrong with my own
daughter percent of aperture because
that's the way I want to live my life
I've got all the money could possibly
need
you know just amounts to which a change
in the newspaper story on my obituary
and the amount of money the foundation
has and the break off relationships with
people i like and people that have
joined me because they think it's a
permanent home to do that simply because
somebody waits a big check at me would
be like something for my children
because up to a big shot
I won't do that and I want to tell my
partner's I won't do it so that they're
not disappointed me more and more with
certain stocks
we've got that approach now if we were
chronically short of funds and all kinds
of opportunities coming we might have a
somewhat different approach but our
inclination is not the cell things
unless
we get really discouraged perhaps with
the management or we think the economic
characteristics of the business change
in a big way
I mean and that happens so what I'm
going to sell simply because it looks
too high
yep in all likelihood that mean that I
can't make that a hundred percent but
it's it's
that's that's that's the principle under
which we operate we're generating right
now
five billion of cashier at least so it's
a hundred million bucks every week and
you know just met
we've been talking about half an hour
and i'm not a damn thing so since you
know I think the real question is how do
you put it out intelligent by the ad and
if we were selling things would be just
that much more so they make their money
there may come a time when that would
change but what we want to and I have
partners
Cheryl were partners who would say if
you can get three times what sees
candies worth why don't you sell it and
that's why I want to be sure before they
come in they know how I think on that I
mean they're they're entitled to know
that that you really want to thank for
meta you know if you're going to get
married and you want to mary's that's
going to last
initially the happiest married you know
or one that that Martha Stewart will
talk about anything that you want a
marriage is gonna last
what quality you look for in a spouse
one quality good for brains
you look for humor you look for
character to look for beauty
now you look for low expectations that
that is the marriage is gonna watch them
both have low expectations i made it and
I want my partners to be on the low side
on expectations coming in because i want
the marriage classes the financial
marriage when I join me at virtual and I
don't want him to think i'm going to do
things that I'm i'm not going to do so
that's that's our guiding principle
the device is all free in your medical
advice everything
next time good morning it mr. Babbitt I
have a question regarding evaluation of
the sounds of investment in recent years
appears that the use of tax sheltering
in preparation is increasing and such
you know reputable companies like UPS
and others involved in a cold part of
silver shoulders with IRS and as we know
most of these transactions are very
artificial but yet there is the profit
there from the investor perspective do
you think it's beneficial for investor
that the company that they invest a
involved no see
charters and if so do you think would be
helpful is it built in such that
disclosed in statements and immediately
no statement not sure I got that a
hundred percent George to you that i
will repeat that it and they are all the
Giants shot at it
they if you think that the involvement
of a corporation that you invest or
anybody for that matter invest in tax
shelter which is by some definition of
that attack showers right
I've never used one yeah i know i wanna
go out to it saying so I'm asking if you
know that the corporation is involved in
such activity that is beneficial in
charts pattern would you would think
that that's helpful for investments
what does that mean there there's but
they're perfectly legal ways to show
their taxes i mean we we did and still
do but we were the earliest ones to go
in for low income tax housing credits
that guy met with President first
president Bush about about that one and
that benefits are still mild degree it
it's not a big element of virtue of its
a penis and in terms of pictures overall
value but it it is a congressionally
ordained tax benefit
I wouldn't call exactly a shelter it's a
tax benefit that Congress has decided
they're willing to offer business
those and they that because they think
it's the best way to to generate
low-income housing so we participate in
something but that it's not a it's not a
big factor and and what we do and what I
want there's no there's nothing wrong
with that then if you get into tax
evasion I mean that's a whole different
game that point they'll go to jail
no but certain businesses some insurance
companies are incorporated in Bermuda
I that and add you can save a lot of
taxes you have to meet certain other
tests which we wouldn't want to meet
but if we were willing to meet those
other tests
there's nothing illegal or immoral about
us moving to Bermuda we're not going to
do it and what if if the restrictions
were done it that the tax code is the
rule book and you follow the rule but I
think some of the things people do in
terms of bending that rule book get very
close to frog and sometimes cross the
line into fraud and when they do I think
that would be be prosecuted but that's
that's another game and inside there has
been more pushing on that i would say in
the last five years and certainly was my
experience earlier and there are more
there's up I think now is diminished the
last year too but a couple years ago
there was very aggressive marketing by
some of the auditing firms and of these
even with sure
percentage shares of the gain to be paid
to the others i think that those things
got fairly dubious and pretty when they
shopped for legal opinions and also that
if you got caught doing these things you
can say well I was rely on this legal
opinion and therefore I shouldn't go to
jail but just pay the back taxes so I i
don't know how many anything were
associated with it has done that but
I've obviously if they push too far we
don't want to be there
yep i was curious with the large number
of people you have now have with the
tremendous amounts of wealth what do you
think of the current state of
philanthropy
well
I'll be out this week and then actually
10 : out flying on to Seattle and then
and talking to the United Way group out
there they see how well you hide away
raises more per capita I believe in it
either way in the country and and bill
gates will be there were talking jointly
his mother was very active and the
united way but bill is going to give
away over a billion dollars a year and a
lot more later on but right now a
billion and it's very interesting and
he's very rational about it and he's
very informed in fact he got somebody I
think is primary advisor in the medical
field as fellows with the CDC in Vienna
and bill reads 15 books so a month on
this i mean he is thinking just
absorbing I i wouldn't be able to get it
that fast but he just says with a
billion dollars he wants to save as many
lives for years you can
so how did he get that his objective
he's it's just as much a metric of his
of his foundation as some other metric
return on capital might be for a
business and he says I'm going to spend
a billion dollars or how many how many
lives can be saved for that so he's
gotten very heavily in the vaccines and
and AIDS in Africa number of things that
it's very rational i personally I think
I've all my 99 . something percent of my
net worth will go to a foundation after
the ladder of my wife and i and i am
it's all going to go to foundation far
as i'm concerned i got from society's
gonna go to society
I've written a letter to my trustees
I've got very few trustees to get a
whole bunch of trustees in my view it
they just homogenized themselves down to
sort of the lowest common denominator
because he had 30 people in a room and
prestigious people but they're also all
have their particular all modern allow
other particular Hospital and it will
become a big trade-off game you know
that they like Congress so
I have very few people and I don't give
them anything specific because I tell
them their judgment above ground will be
better than my instructions from six
feet underground son that I don't like
to think that but it's true
so I tell him I look the society are the
ones that don't have an actual funding
constituents see you love or are just
damned intractable and very difficult to
solve
so I don't I am NOT going to haunt them
at all
if they spend big money on some terribly
important problem and they fail because
they're taking on tough problems when I
by businesses i'm buying easy businesses
the reason that big problems of society
or big problems is that their damn tough
to solve so they're they're swinging at
bad pitches
I'm swinging it easy pictures in
business but they're swinging it they
have to swing at bad pitches but i tell
him i wanted to try and do it and if
they fail it doesn't bother me at all
and I tell them if they give a million
bucks here and a million bucks there in
a million bucks there
they're not going to sleep because I'm
gonna be haunting him I'm going to come
back every night you know I did not want
the eyedropper approach used to flying
through p
but I want them to use their judgment to
look at important problems that do not
have a natural funding constituency
you know if the government's going to
find it fine you know I mean they should
be funding important problems but we
don't need to do it
the the ball applied to be in my I have
in my opinion is the fun things that
don't have the natural constituents and
that's what bills doing there isn't the
neck there are a bunch of people around
that you can make an emotional appeal to
to make vaccines available to millions
and millions of kids around the world it
just doesn't target anybody's heart
strange you can make buildings after
mean it just isn't the sort of thing
that you can raise money for on an
emotional basis and there's nothing
wrong with raising money on our
emotional basis but that is a problem
will get solved by a funny constituent
it was responding to that but bill is
responding to what it is
mind is that is the important thing
which is saving lives and he doesn't
care whether it gets his name on a
building or whether anything happens or
what everybody knows about it and he
gets published they just because of the
scale is on but it
he doesn't care about that i can promise
you that so that's my philosophy is that
I got this money not because i'm a
superior human being not because I've
done more for society and other people
I was wired the right way to be dropped
into the United States at this
particular time
I mean it's a huge capitalistic society
and I'm wired
no credit to me but it born that way so
that I'm better an asset allocation than
other people to some degree
just like other people are better at all
kinds of other things and I was with two
teachers out of the sun valley
they're doing more for society that I am
and they don't
this market system does nothing for them
market system does all kinds of things
for me
kate says if I have been born five
thousand years ago you know I have been
some animals lunch
you know because i can't run very fast
climb trees I mean you know what those
state and I could I could tell that
animal is chasing me in a way that we
see how I can allocate assets you know
it wouldn't make any difference
so here I am yeah i'm bored out again I
the just very very lucky and at the odds
when i was born in nineteen thirty the
odds with 50 to 1 against baby born the
United States
that's a terrible set onto the face and
then I was rock down here you know and
if I then drop down and / or someplace
ER or China
I mean I wouldn't have a chance so
society is what does it for you and and
it should go back and might be with you
go back to society if you've been lucky
enough to be dropped into a society
where your particular wiring pays off
big
now it that that's just luck and and you
know there's nothing wrong with being
like I don't feel guilty about anything
else but i also don't feel that I feel
like I have a lot of fun doing what I do
but I feel the money should go back into
society and it should go back as
intelligently as it can and best way to
do it intelligently is to have high
grade and intelligent people
administering it at the time and you
don't know the problems that are going
to be out there 10 years from now or 20
years from now or 30 years from now but
i do know if I've got a small number of
high-grade smart people and high grade
is more applied out
Oh of if you gave me 20 extra points of
IQ but but cheated a little on the high
grade I wouldn't take it because that
they got to be they got to be there's
somebody chances that to do things in a
petty way or you know do try to make
people get supported in their own minds
to their own interests rather than the
interest of the institution so I really
want super high-grade people doing it
and I've got them and I think the money
might do a lot of good it may do no good
but it will be operating in fields or if
it doesn't good that good probably would
have been done otherwise
yep
I'm just wondering there's a lot of
differences between the recent boom and
bust the stock market and one in the
nineteen twenties but there's also a lot
of similarities and the simulators are
allowing people to draw the conclusion
that stock prices will be trapped
depressed for some time to come
what where do you disagree agree with
that we bought in the the whole century
is quite interesting if you take the
20th century it was unbelievable century
for the United States the gdp per capita
and that's the way to think of this per
capita sometimes they talk about our gdp
vs Europe's but if their populations the
same every year an artist goes up one
percent you've gotta you know in the end
of the goods you gotta i have a divisor
as well as the numerator and and so gdp
per capita in the 20th century in the
United States one of six hundred and ten
percent actually qualitatively went too
far more than that because you can't
really measure you know certain things
and medicine or whatever it may be it
and the improvements but just out of
quantitative basis
it went up every single decade including
the decade of the thirties
so here you have a hundred years when
basically the US citizen really was
getting was improving their lot decade
by decade by decade the thirties
it was a 13-percent that's decade was
World War 2 the night the forties
36-percent the worst decade was the
first world war so you get sometimes the
analogy I can get in trouble and
analogies but any of that it was it was
a huge . interestingly enough there were
six big periods in there for the stock
market in both directions
there were three big bull market from
1910 1920 one
the Dow want from 66 to 70 one less than
a 10-percent move in 20 years
less than half a percent here you got
evidence to put a half of it didn't move
from 21 to 29 as you point out at what
it went from 71 to a high of 381 in
September
of 1929 while five hundred percent
well obviously the country well being of
the country thing about five hundred
percent during that period and the
well-being of the company in the country
about the whole lot more than ten
percent during that first 21 years so he
had this very uneven development from 19
from september's 1929 until the end of
1948 the download from 381 to about a
hundred and eighty was cut in half and
that was eighteen long years and yet the
per capita gdp was moving right up
during this whole period to the economy
is doing fine for 38 265 the doll one
again from about a hundred eighty up to
close to a thousand again 541 which was
far outstripping from 65 to 80 1 the
doll went down literally
well again per capita to be and then
we've had this last period where it's
going to prolifically if you take the
whole hundred years it went up a hundred
and eighty-four one every thousand
dollars became a hundred eighty thousand
but forty three and a quarter you're
forty three and three-quarters years
with those three big huge bull markets
and fifty six and a quarter years with
periods of stagnation all in an economy
that was doing fine
you know year after year after your
fifty six and a quarter years
net the dow was down a couple other
points during that period and the other
forty three and three-quarters years
made up the rest of this move from 66 to
11,000 someone to dallas self-excited
yourself how could it be that you can
have a country was doing better and
better and better and better citizens
we're living every every generation was
living better than the one that preceded
it
but you have these huge changes big
gains a few times long period of
stagnation 20 years I mean that's a long
time to do nothing
the answer is that investors behave in
very human ways which is they get very
excited during bull markets and they
look in the rearview mirror and they say
I made money last year
i'm going to make more money this year
so this time I'll borrow an hour or the
neighbor says you know I wasn't it last
year when that neighbor was dumber than
I am a lot of money so i'm going to go
in this year's they're always looking at
the river
where and when they look in the rearview
mirror and they see a lot of money
having been made in the last few years
they plow and they just push and push
and push on prices and when they look in
the rearview mirror and I see no money
having been made
they just say this is a lousy place to
be so they don't care what's going on in
the underlying business and it's it's
astounding but that's that makes for a
huge opportunity just huge opportunity
I mean I have lived through roughly half
in investing sense about half that . and
I've had that long period of stagnation
from 48
I mean from 65 to 80 - 17 years
I wrote an article for forbes in 1979 I
just how can this be
pension funds in the nineteen seventy
put a hundred and some percent of their
new money in stock because they were
wild about stocks then they got a lot
cheaper and they put our record low in
nine percent of that nobody in the 1970s
when stocks for way cheaper people
behave very peculiarly and and in terms
of the reactions because they they're
human beings and they get excited when
others get excited they get greedy when
others get greedy they get fearful one
other get fearful and they'll continue
to do so and you will see you know if
you will see things you won't believe in
your lifetime and securities markets and
the country will do very well over time
but you will see these huge waves and
then and if you can stay objective
throughout that you can detach yourself
temperamentally from the crowd
you get very rich and you won't have to
be very bright
I mean it I'm sure you are but but
that one you know it just it doesn't
take brains it takes temperament
it takes the ability to sit there and
look at something when i started out in
nineteen fifty i would go through and
find things at two times earnings and
they were perfectly decent businesses
and people want two jobs at those
companies and everybody knew they were
going to be around anyone behind with
two times earnings and that's when
interest rates for two and a half
percent you know I went to the start
installing security lights 21 and I
Kansas City Life Insurance Company have
to be a fairly prominent company in
omaha and the policies they sold google
if you're buying life in church from
them had a building and assumption of
two percent interest the stock of kansas
city life was selling it
less than three times earnings you're
getting 35% if you bought the stock
no question about the sound of the
company I went to the local agent as I
figure it out I'll give yourself him a
few shares of stock I mean think I
understand he's got his whole life
invested in this company with the local
agent
we've been with them for 20 years and as
name is mo size of mr. moose and you
know you're selling these policies with
2% even have a few members of your own
family and you can buy into this company
whose paycheck youtube and on every
month that you know and whose future you
of your your beneficiaries of his life
policy depend on and who you're selling
them you know a two percent investment
on and you get thirty five percent of
your money you know and i'm stuck trying
to be good and then I couldn't I
consultant and I'm i will allow
themselves when I mean the world you
have to start with that but but it just
blew me away
it blew me away I thought sometimes I
used to wonder if I his nuts you know
that that but those things the same
thing happened I mean 1964 the dow
closed the dates
864 and then a 1981 17 years later later
it closed at age 65 and move one . in 17
years now it's not a big move and that
you can't believe the how discouraged
people were by that by the during that
period but you know people are looking
better
so things can go on a long time
that don't make sense and but they don't
come to an end i mean the internet thing
I mean you had these companies selling
for many billions of dollars that had
nope
really frankly no prospects are making
any money that that's a that's a bubble
butt hurt sign one time said anything
that can't go on forever will end now
that's a pretty good
but think about that and particularly
think about it next time you're trying
to do something just because the stock's
gone ball a lot you know many of your
neighbors make money or something that
you've got to be
she's had to sit and think objectively
and think about what i buy this whole
business
it's an Internet companies got a hundred
million shares outstanding a hundred
that's ten billion dollars is it worth
ten billion dollars
it's worth ten billion dollars it's got
to be able to give you you know seven or
eight hundred million next year and if
it doesn't give you seven or eight
hundred million next year he has a good
move
maybe ten percent more than that the
year after and continue to him
there are a lot of businesses can do
that and people just go crazy and of
course it's fun
I mean it's you know it's like that sign
they put in doctors offices and says
avoid hangover state rock and up that
minute
it's just so much fun to keep like but
yeah you got it you got to do sensible
things to get to get that result
yeah yeah next well we got three people
standing there so let's let's do the
three that are standing ok
good morning sir hi I i was wondering
what your opinion is the Federal Reserve
and their actions taken recently you
feel like done and not to fix the
economy
yeah well I'm a big fan of alan
greenspan's over time I've known him for
a long long time we were on a board
together
caption reason Alan is a very very smart
guy he is motivated in my opinion
entirely by whatever for the United
States people united states it
so you better that you've got you
couldn't have a better person in there
and the problem
he may have is that that because his
tenure in office has been associated
with this incredible all market that
that even though he wouldn't have
claimed credit for that people applied
associated because of the importance of
the Fed generally they might associate
with him so they made if things don't
work out so well made blame them as well
but I think his policy is generally been
very good
you have to understand one thing that
about the Fed is that it's not as
powerful as the mystique would make it
it's a break is better than its gas
pedal when the Fed wants to put on the
brakes
we go for the windshield I mean how do
you know the economy just wrong
yeah and they can put on the brakes Paul
Walker did it
he broke inflation by doing it but I
mean when he put on the brakes and that
. around nineteen eighty i mean people
hated he was crucified for what is the
right thing to do and he could do it he
did it all by himself and these he and
and it was the only way because of the
momentum the inflation was generating it
was the only thing that was what was
needed then normally unpopular
it's much harder for a Greenspan to put
on the brakes because nobody wants him
to put on the brakes busty so visible
but he's put them on sort of gradually
but stepping on the gas pedal
he does not necessarily get the same
result it may help but there are a
thousand other variables operating and
as you see in Japan
you know you can get down to zero
interest rates and you can stimulate
anything so it isn't like the Japanese
haven't read the same books we read
about economics I mean they've read
canes and they were the whole thing so
we're not smarter than they are
we don't have any secrets they don't
have but they don't know how to get
their economy going and you know there
- <operand> two </operand> GPA has been
going no place you know in the last five
years and still problems around so easy
money doesn't solve everything but
Greenspan could very well get blamed for
the fact that that he hasn't solved
everything and it's just not in his
power to solve it can help in various
ways and I've I don't think you could
have anybody but he better and I think
he's done the right thing to this point
but the right thing may not be quite as
as effective as as people may help that
would be in economics as always you
always want to ask and then what you
read in the paper well what happens if
the Japanese start selling government
our government bonds or what happened
they dumped the dollar they can't dump
the dollar
there's a way to dump dollars you could
you can at least dollar assets because
the Japanese want to sell government our
government bonds
they sell up to us and they get a time
deposit or a demand deposits it here
they still own a dollar asset if they
sell them to the French they get it and
they may get some answers from the
French but now the French habit I mean
the only way you can reduce foreign
investment in the United States is to
change it around so they're consuming
more than from us more than were
consuming from that might be one once
when we buy a television set from Japan
if we buy more television sets from them
than they buy equivalent consumables
from us
the exchange of what balances things is
we give them some investment type asset
whether it's cash or US government bonds
or stocks or movie studios are real
estate or different things and the only
way that reverses is when we start
running a trade surplus which were miles
away from so logically you know if you
read classic economics that you would
believe that our currency would have
been weak along
Earl weaker over the recent years and
that it would be a week now but there
are other things operating and that's
one of the problems about economics is
there's never just one variable
there's usually hundreds of variables
and they operate with different impact
at different times
I mean it's a it's it's not like a
physics for me if I mean it tho i guess
it would be if you get in the Heisenberg
principle or something like that but but
the the formula has a lot of the same
variables year after year but the
relative importance of those variables
and how they interact with each other is
never exactly the same and that's what
we find out the Japanese find out
everybody finds out and and foreign
currency or the currents are the value
of a dollar and currency rates are
defying what you would expect based on
history but somebody said of history
were perfect guide you know the Forbes
400 would all be librarians you know
she's going to look it up in the books
and it always you know all the answers
but it
history doesn't repeat itself as Mark
Twain said i was going to repeat itself
but it rhymes I mean things come back
but they don't quite come back in the
same format will understand all this
perfectly for years why the dollars
behave the way it has but I i think it
would be useful
net from the US if the dollar was strong
yes mr. Buffett thanks for taking my
question my question pertains to small
business and my family spending the
truckload sector of transportation for
about 50 years and as you talked about
the airline industry and other merchants
next week
acquisitions and things going on and a
lot of the smaller players being tossed
out of the market
what do you see for people that like
this room for students that want to
start a small business and maybe they
want to start in a business that is
somewhat of a commodity type business
but as businesses the large corporations
get larger and their deficiencies
increase how can a small businesses
compete
it has these people the idea the in many
areas small businesses have an advantage
you know another businesses scale has a
huge advantage and I mean you don't want
to be a a tiny carbon steel producer on
the other hand when many miles came
along and learn how to use scrap more
effectively that than the the older
methods of making steel they actually
had managed to scale is a huge advantage
in some businesses
it's you know the largest airlines
haven't won southwest airlines as one
starting with you know just a few planes
flying down there between houston and
allison and they have become bigger but
their ambition hasn't been to be the
biggest and you know they they probably
by the fuel of just as cheap as United
that we bought it you know when there's
lots more walmart is a classic example I
mean who would have thought 25 years ago
30 years ago
i'm here with serious with a hundred
story plus building in Chicago had
access to money far cheaper than sample
I'm Sam was credit was not as good as
serious every supplier wanted to do
business with sears nobody ever heard of
Sam every real-estate developer was
developing a new shopping center went
first to sears on Sam got
the short end so here's the guys
starting in bentonville arkansas and he
kills them over time
just playing kills him and disadvantaged
and buying disadvantage and borrowing
disadvantage in real estate advantage
Sam Walton and his ability to inspire in
the end hundreds of thousands of people
to be enthusiastic about going to work
and doing although doing the right
things over time so i would be just as
optimistic about small business
generally now there's certain areas
where scale just as i was just playing
important but but I see no disadvantage
we intentionally at Berkshire we have a
hundred and twelve thousand employees
more in Georgia than any other state in
the Union incidentally we employ a lot
of their don't and then we put a lot of
people are making a guy go ad we
intentionally with our hundred and
twelve thousand but we probably have
about how many business units but lots
at will have 13.8 people at headquarters
I'm not the point agent said that my I
resent it when people like that i have a
full but we have one that works four
days a week then that's all we have at
headquarters hundred twelve thousand
people a hundred and five billion market
cap but we intentionally keep our units
small we think we want them to have the
nimbleness the responsiveness of the
customer particularly that will turn
them you know that essentially will more
than offset anything that the scale of
having maybe a little more purchasing
power something when the will develop we
own a home furnishing with furniture
home furnishings business in utah run by
phone bill child he was featured in
Fortune about one issue ago that it did
the cover story was God in business it
was and it was Bill was the number one
illustration built up that business from
his father-in-law was doing two hundred
fifty thousand dollars a year and then I
was over half the business in utah in
this field but you're close to 400
million he built by thinking about the
customer and the truth with he was
competing with sears he was competing
with rabbits was a huge furniture
retailer the retailer in the past he was
competing with everybody but
all he thought about from the moment he
got up in the morning was how do I take
care of my customer and that wins
we have a business in Omaha some of you
may have heard of
it's the largest home furnishing store
in the world in all which only has a SMS
a of 650,000 people
it's on 72 acres
it's does 325 million dollars in one
location which happens to be five
hundred dollars for every man woman and
child in the SMS a but it draws from
beyond that that business comes about
her as resulted from an investment of
five hundred dollars in 1937 by a woman
who walked out of Russia in 1921
she'll and she walked out . on a peanut
boat landed in seattle with a tag around
her neck she could speak one word of
English the American Red Cross look at
the tag is at Fort Dodge Iowa
they got a fort dodge I what she
couldn't pick up the language she was
there two years
she said she felt like a dummy so she
came to homo because there were other
Russian Jews there and she's at least
have somebody to talk to her little girl
started school
Francis Francis would come home at night
and teach her mother the words you
learned in school that day that's how
this woman rose bump can learn the
English language but from her from her
daughter from kindergarten on teaching
of the words she bought seven siblings
over from Russia one of the time 50
bucks every time she say fifty bucks she
sold used clothing and the works
she had her seven siblings over her
mother and father and by 1937 16 years
after she got here she saved five
hundred dollars
she got out of train went to Chicago to
the American Furniture Mart which was
huge
impressive things you had this - smart
as hell but she fought like a peasant
away and she saw this building she
decided to name her company then browse
current you want about five hundred
dollars worth of got about two thousand
dollars worth of you
merchandise all the way back to Omaha
she worried because she thought I old
$1,500 and she only had a
five-hundred-dollar equity so she got to
Omaha
she took the bed the sofa
the refrigerator out of her own home to
sell fast
so she could get the money so she can
pay on time she took that business and
build it from that start
no one would sell to her she went to
court four times because they tried to
the carpet manufacturers tried to keep
her from selling the discount and she
went into court
add told the judge because you figured
out ways to buy this stuff in various
nefarious ways from other hand of people
by a foreign she said look at i pay
three dollars a yard for this carpet
brandeis sells it for 698 is I sell it
for 398
just tell me judge how much you want me
to rob people she defended herself
papers wrote it up the judge bought
carpet from her the next day I mean it
was no marvelous
Brandeis is selling anymore they were
the huge department store , she put
everybody out of business and the punch
line
she worked till she was a hundred and
three she sold me the business when she
was 89 and she didn't have she didn't
have an audit
I went out this year I want afternoon
took a check out with Nana had because I
knew she wanted to do something and I
said mrs. B here's the money
I said I don't even know what just tell
me where the only money that never open
any money since I all those guys back in
nineteen thirty-seven and she said it's
all free and clear
she never seen a balance sheet she
didn't know what accounting terms mad
but she understood the nature of the
business and i told her i said i'd
rather have I don't have your word and
other than an order from every one of
the big six or bigger or whatever their
word number at the time of the top are
turning from sin and she worked till she
was a hundred and three
she died a hundred and four she had
three siblings at her funeral
I mean those are some genes her son
works there now he's eighty two or three
and the three sisters are all alive but
the punch line is she couldn't read or
write this woman could not read or write
if you told her this room was sixty
eight feet by 43 she would tell you how
many square yards it was like that she
ever went to school to be in her life
she would tell you how much that wasn't
598 yards she had the tax
she's not about something that she liked
your looks and that would be it
and that was that you know that is the
that that you can't beat that
you know had and you can't replicate
that at General Motors you can't
institutionalize that that the person
who brings that kind of drive to a
business and does it day after day and
thinks about the customer
yeah and that's all she did I can't and
once you've raised four kids in the
process to but you can't hit it can't
miss and not you don't have to worry if
you're an entrepreneur in most fields
are some field work
you can't do it because there are some
scale aspects to it but in most fields
you know you will kill people by Sean
that which was shocked
nobody ever heard of Sean carpet 30
years ago and got forty percent of
the business in the country - so don't I
did
it's a great field of opportunity out
there and i had and i know about
trucking specifically but I wish you the
best on it then your you won't be at a
disadvantage in many fields if you're
small and you'll actually have an
advantage for thank you
mr. Buffett thank you very much for
sharing your wisdom and your ideas are
wonderful stories with us today we are
truly honored and pleased we've had this
opportunity to get to know you a little
bit better
I'd like to thank a couple people before
we conclude for helping with the
logistics associate dean a bob Gatewood
our director of alumni relations and
Marie garrison thank both of you David .
and director of communications are a lot
of work and everyone into this
I thank all of you for all you've done
it all again thank you for helping make
this possible
mr. but we have a parting gift for you
but it needs to be placed into context
before we show you what it is in your
most recent letter newsletter - you're
in a report to the shareholders you
discuss some of the things you look for
and make with making acquisitions and
one of the things you talked about was
owners look for owners who care who they
sell to and that was important to you
I like to quote from your report when a
business masterpiece has been created by
a lifetime or several lifetimes of
understanding care and exceptional
talent
it should be important to the owner what
corporation is entrusted to carry on its
history
a little bit further down you say how
much better it is for the painter of a
business Rembrandt to personally select
its permanent home
then they have a trust officer or
uninterested airs knocks it off
well we believe that many of these words
apply to you as well you two have
created a business masterpiece you to
have created a Rembrandt what we have
today is a light-hearted portrait a
light-hearted characterization that we
hope to capture some of the business
milestones in your career and we hope
also captures some of that quick quick
wit and humor that you demonstrated
today it was painted by a good friend of
ours and a well-known artist lives here
locally alan campbell Allen nice but is
with us and he will help but unveiled
today
Alan please come down
now when we need when he unveils us
please understand that you're not gonna
be able to see the detail of this more
you're sitting
but we invite you to come down and walk
past the as you as you leave today
Alan if you're going to speak over the
microphone place
well thank you and and and mr. Buffett
hope you told maintain your sense of
humor which appealed to me greatly
when
reading your corporate report and this
is going to be a test of that famous
humor but it is a it is intended to be a
porch or both of you and of your company
and of your values and when I was when
Marie garrison my girlfriend
the alumni director here told me you
were coming and I read the comments
about the Rembrandt's and lying on your
back you feel like you can allow your
back and paint ceiling every day Brooks
here
you basically open the door with your
own words so and and just on the side my
brother's one of your pilot's for
executive jet
I think it's not a reference to the
jewelry , so you can stay
this is based only very famous Rembrandt
self-portrait anybody's information mr.
Buffett will sign autographs you've got
books with you like in the side will set
up a table down front here for the next
15 or 20 minutes would like to take a
picture of you got a camera with you
please come on up don't hesitate and
thank you all for coming and
participating today was a wonderful
event thank you